## {{page.title}}

The [Data Access Framework](http://wiki.siframework.org/Data+Access+Framework+Homepage) was a US initiative sponsored by the Office of the National Coordinator (ONC) which aimed to create FHIR profiles for access to discrete Meaningful Use Stage 2 data as FHIR resource instances. The Initial HL7 DAF Implementation guide was published with the FHIR DSTU2 specification in October of 2015.  The [The Argonaut Project](http://argonautwiki.hl7.org/index.php?title=Main_Page) formed in December 2014 and is a market-initiated code and documentation sprint to accelerate the market readiness of open industry FHIR-based APIs for patient- and provider-driven interoperability use cases. Several Argonaut sprints were held based upon the DAF DSTU2 profiles prior to and after their publication.  In addition ONC 2015 proposed Rules for Meaningful Use had been published in the March of 2015.

Based upon these activities and HL7 sponsored connectathons it was recognized that the original DAF requirements were overly broad.  Therefore, for FHIR STU3 (Version 3.0.0) the original DSTU2 DAF content was split into the US Core and [DAF Research](http://hl7.org/fhir/us/daf-research/) Implementation guides based on their main use cases:

- **US Core** : The US Core Implementation Guide initial scope covers the 2015 Meaningful Use Common Clinical Data Set (CCDS) and define the *minimum* mandatory conformance requirements needed for accessing patient data based on the Argonaut pilot implementations. Systems using the US Core artifacts will be compliant with the DAF and Argonaut IGs. This implementation guide forms the foundation to build future US Realm FHIR implementation guides and its content will continue to grow to meet the needs of US implementers.

- **DAF-Research** The DAF-Research Implementation Guide on the other hand focuses on enabling researchers to access data from multiple organizations in the context of Learning Health System (LHS). The capabilities created as part of DAF-Research are intended to be leveraged to build our nation’s data infrastructure for a Learning Health System. DAF-Research IG will leverage work that has been completed and tested as part of the US-Core IG.
